title: New Plans for the Proposed Burlington Palace Hotel
key: 194114256a
category: Advertising
date_updated: 2015-08-10
precis: Detailed description of the intended layout of the hotel.

tags:
    - burlington-palace-hotel
    - eyre-william
    - harding-charles

insertions:
    - date       : 1889-05-25
      publication: KatoombaTimes
      page       : 4
      trove_id   : 194114256
----
# New Plans for the Proposed Burlington Palace Hotel, Leura, Katomba East

Prepared by Charles A. Harding, Architect, Victoria Chambers, Sydney.

A NUMBER of the Provisional Directors of the Burlington Palace Hotel Company and a distinguished party of friends waited upon the offices of Mr. Chas. A. Harding to inspect the New Plans of the above Hotel, which will be completed next week. Suffice it to say that the new Plans were much admired, and every member of the party was of the opinion that the Burlington Palace Hotel as proposed would be an undoubted success.

On the Ground floor there will be a wide Entrance Hall leading to a Grand Staircase with Office- Lavatory, Reception Room, Smoking Room, Sitting Room, Ladies' and Gentlemen's Drawing Rooms Billiard Room, Private and Public Var, and Children's Special Dining Room.

The Grand Palatial Dining Hall, 60 feet by 36 feet, will be one of the permanent features in the building, with a Serving Room and Kitchen in the rear, and every modern appliance for the saving of labor.

The Main Staircase, 18 feet by 8 feet, will be exceedingly handsome; besides this there will be a Staircase provided on either side, leading to the Bedrooms.

Special attention is being paid to the Servants' Quarters, Bakehouse, Wine Cellar, and Offices of various kinds are carefully planned.

The Courtyard will be 67 feet by 33 feet, surrounded by 7 feet Verandah, and in the centre an   artistic Fountain will be provided as in the Palace Hotel in San Francisco, with gold and silver fish in the receptacle at the base, also shrubs, ferns, and pot plants will be tastefully arranged, so as to give a cool and refreshing atmosphere to the place. Along the Verandah, Lounges and Marble Top Tables will be arranged so that the visitor can smoke his Havannah Cigar and be waited upon with a cup of coffee, glass of wine, and fruit, and so while away the time in luxurious ease.

On the First floor there will be 40 Bedrooms, also Four Separate Suites of Rooms, containing every novelty, and ventilation is carefully attended to.

The Bath Rooms.—Besides the usual plunge and shower baths, it is intended to introduce all the newest kinds of Hydropathic Baths such as Vapour, Hot Air, Douche, Sitz Baths. Already it may be remarked that a specialist in Hydropathy is desirous of making arrangements to superintend these Baths, which it is believed will prove a great attraction to visitors, and a source of considerable revenue at the Hotel.

On the Second Floor there will be 29 Bedrooms and Four Suites of Rooms. The architecture is exceedingly neat and artistic, and may be described as a modified Queen Anne style, and has been much admired.

The Centre Tower will enable visitors to obtain an extensive view of the gorgeous Mountain Scenery which surrounds this charming Leura Estate.

The Burlington Palace Hotel will occupy about 10 acres of Land, and it is intended to have Summer Arbors, Tennis Courts, Bowling Green, Skating Rink, Temple of Pomona, Fruit and Flower Stall, and the gardens and grounds will be laid out to look a ornamentable as possible, so as to add to the charm and beauty about the place in every way.

The Architect's Plan will be ready in a week, when they will be exhibited at Mr. P. Mullany's Katoomba, for the inspection of the public.

The Burlington Palace Hotel is not proposed in opposition to the Carrington Hotel. On the contrary, it is the desire of the promoters to co-operate in a friendly manner with Mr. Goyder, whose admirable management of the Carrington has done so much towards bringing Katoomba to the front.

The Provisional Directors are anxious that Leura shall be represented by the Burlington Palace Hotel, and that it shall embody all the comforts of a home, with all the luxury to be found in the best appointed Hotel in Europe.

The question of lighting the Hotel and Grounds with the Electric Light is now engaging the attention of the Provisional Committee, and rough estimate is now being prepared of the cost, should       sufficient support be given to the Hotel Company, and the cost not be too heavy, it is the wish of the Provisional Committee to adopt the Electric Light, which would be a magnificent advertisement for the new hotel, as it would be seen for fully 25 miles, and add greatly to the brilliancy and beauty of the grounds and the enjoyment of its Patrons, the public.

A large amount of influential support is already promised to the Burlington Palace Hotel Company and it is believed with every prospect of a successful issue.

Mr. William Eyre, Midas Chambers, 112 King-street, Sydney.
----
This never got built.
