Title: Katoomba Jockey Club
Key: 194115020a
Category: Article
Insertion: 1889-06-22 | KatoombaTimes | 2 | 194115020
DateUpdated: 2015-08-13
Precis: Report of a meeting to form a Jockey Club and determine the location of the new racecourse. Further investigation was recommended.

#racecourse
#eyre-william
#goyder
#palmerston-estate
----
# Katoomba Jockey Club.

A LARGE public meeting was held in Mr. Joseph Nimmo's Katoomba Family Hotel on
Saturday night. Mr. F. C. Goyder was voted into the chair.

The Chairman explained that the meeting had been called for the purpose of
organising a Katoomba and Leura Racecourse Club, and making a road from Leura
to the Oval.

Mr. Eyre said the establishment of such a club would raise the town of Katoomba
in importance. Taken up in a spirited manner, he thought it would be a success.
Not only the attractions of a racecourse would be offered to visitors, but they
would also have the opportunity to view the great sites, of which Katoomba is
the centre. Cheap trains would bring 1000 or 1500 people from Victoria, Sydney,
and elsewhere to their race meetings. [Mr. Eyre here read a letter from Mr.
Harris, surveyor, stating that the Leura Oval was the best site about Katoomba
for a racecourse, that the land was level and good, and that the road, half a
mile in extent, could be formed for a small sum of money.]

Mr. Harry Peckman said a good vehicular road, 33ft. in width, could be made from
Leura to the proposed racecourse, a distance of half a mile, for the sum of £20.
They could drive in a buggy easily from Katoomba to the Leura Estate.

In answer to Mr. W. O'Regan, Mr. Eyre stated that the road was made to within
half a mile of the racecourse. They would cross over Leura Overbridge, and the
drive from Katoomba could be performed within half-an-hour.

Mr. George Atkin, as an old resident of the Blue Mountains, would like to see
every place go ahead, as he was identified with the progress of all. He would
like to know the exact area of the racecourse at Leura.

Mr. Peckman said it was 2½ miles if they went over Leura Overbridge; they would
then pass along the Leura Parade, and cross a Government road.

Mr. George Atkin was led to believe some time ago that Mr. W. O'Regan had
suitable ground within half-a-mile of the town of Katoomba. He had not been over
either ground, but would like to know if Mr. O'Regan could enlighten them on the
subject.

Mr. Wm. O'Regan said he had some months ago arranged with the members of the
Katoomba Cricket and Athletic Club in reference to selecting them a suitable
recreation ground. He got a surveyor to lay out a mile and a half of his land,
which was perfectly level, exactly shaped, and drawn like the Melbourne course.
Going round by the College, it was a mile and a half from Katoomba. He had laid
out a good deal of money in clearing and forming the course. He would undertake
to clear the road, and erect a grandstand like Randwick for the sum of £500.
Perhaps gentlemen attending the meeting would see both courses and judge for
themselves.

Mr. Eyre said the course he proposed was perfectly natural, and visitors thereto
could view beautiful mountain sites, especially the one at Gladstone. If the
meeting approved of the formation of the Katoomba and Leura Racecourse, they
would get more than half their support from Sydney. There was nothing to prevent
a race meeting being held in December next. He spoke to Mr. Clissold about the
club, and that gentleman said "Put down my name for £10." Several others
promised their support. They could have a race-meeting in December, another in
January, and keep the ball rolling. The very moment the name of Mr. Goyder, an
old sportsman, was mentioned, the club would be known all over Victoria.
Directly it was known, such wretched little places as Rosehill would not be as
well patronised. He suggested a limited joint stock company. One-third of the
shares could be subscribed at Katoomba, and the remaining two-thirds would be
taken up in Sydney. A gentleman owning the adjoining property would take a large
number of shares, 100 or so. The sporting fraternity spent three times more than
others. This movement was not done in a little puddling spirit, and would even
benefit Wentworth Falls. He thought the thing would not be complete unless they
got George Atkin in it. Nature seems to have given the Leura Oval to them, and
all they wanted was the ability to take advantage of it. Katoomba, situation
midway between Penrith and Lithgow, was now the chief town of the Blue
Mountains, and the centre of all the magnificent views. The races would be of
immense advantage to the town of Katoomba. On the Oval, 23 acres were surveyed
for a racecourse, which they could lease for three years with a right to
purchase. He suggested that a limited liability company be formed, capital to
consist of £5000 in £1 shares—2s. 6d. to be paid on allotment, and calls of 1s.
to be made at fixed times. They could then have the road and grandstand made,
and the course fenced in. All they had to do was to give the movement a bold
start.

Mr. W. O'Regan: My course is second to none in the colony, and races can be held
there in September next. The course is a mile and a half in extent, and could be
increased to three miles of good land.

Mr. George Atkin thought it would benefit Wentworth Falls if well carried out.
The main thing, for them, to study, however is: which is the better course of
the two, and could either Leura Oval or Mr. O'Regan's racecourse be had at a
reasonable price? It behoved Katoomba to have the nearest and best course from
the station. Mr. O'Regan had a high opinion of his course, and was in readiness
to hold a spring meeting. He would like to know from both Mr. Eyre and Mr.
O'Regan the cost of their courses.

Mr. Eyre said Leura was in the proposed Municipal District of Katoomba, was a
portion thereof, being Katoomba East, and was liable for taxes. The road would
cost but little. Mr. Atkin did not grasp the subject. Then had seven or eight
sights around, such as Leura Falls, the Meeting of the Waters, &c., which would
draw the people to the races. The races were not altogether the chief point of
attraction—it was the sights around Katoomba.

Mr. O'Regan said near his racecourse was the Giuvah Falls, which were not to be
equalled by those of Katoomba or Wentworth. He had in the vicinity of his land
other magnificent falls, which were not mentioned in guide books.

Mr. Joseph Nimmo said it was the duty of the meeting to decide whether they
would have a racecourse, and to appoint a committee to select the best site,
and ascertain the probable cost. If they were determined to have a jockey club,
they should not be tied to any course. To test the meeting, he proposed—"That we
form a club, to be called the Katoomba Jockey Club."

Mr. David Thomson seconded the proposition, which was carried.

Mr. Nimmo moved—"That a committee of five be formed to inspect the courses
offered, the committee to consist of Messrs. F. C. Goyder, Harry Peckman, J. H.
Mitchell, D. Thomson, and the mover."

Mr. Wm. James seconded the motion, which was passed *nem. con.*

The Chairman believed that a racecourse properly conducted, with all
conveniences for visitors and sportsmen, would attract many people to Katoomba.
The could not be done in a few months, and the expenses would go into big
figures. They could not expect people to come to Katoomba to see old-fashioned
bush races, with the winners pulling up in front of a pub. They must have all
the appliances of a proper course, or else sportsmen and visitors would stay
away. They had around Sydney several racecourses, on which the proprietors had
spent thousands, where every convenience was at hand to entice people to visit
them. Something more definite should be supplied by Mr. Eyre, as to the cost.
Perhaps Mr. Harris, the surveyor, would accompany the committee. Both Mr. Eyre
and Mr. O'Regan might give their proper plans.

Mr. O'Regan: I have my plans ready.

Mr. Eyre believed Mr. Harris would be available up to Wednesday next, when he is
to leave the district. He would send a note to Mr. Harris, requesting him to
accompany the committee, and to explain everything. He had only a little
interest in the Palmerston Estate, on which the Leura Oval was situated. A
friend of his had the other portion, and would sell 80 acres more. If there were
1000 shares, his friend was prepared to take 500 right off.

In answer to various questions, Mr. Eyre said the course was enclosed on three
sides by private property, and there was a reserve on one side. He had no doubt
arrangements could be made for a road to the course.

The Chairman said Messrs. Eyre and O'Regan ought to be prepared at the next
meeting to state the terms upon which they would either lease or sell the
respective racecourses.

The Committee agreed to meet at 10 o'clock on Tuesday morning at Mr. Nimmo's
Hotel, and thence proceed to inspect the two racecourses.

Mr. Nimmo proposed, Mr. Spring seconded, and it was resolved that the meeting
stand adjourned till Friday night, 21st instant, at 8 o'clock.

In acknowledging a vote of thanks, the Chairman said it would facilitate
business if both Mr. Eyre and Mr. O'Regan would lay before the next meeting
some definite proposals as the to therms, &c.—that is to lease the ground for so
many years at a certain rental, or sell the land right out for so much. They
wanted at least 60 acres for a racecourse. He felt it was his duty to say a
large expenditure would be incurred in establishing a racecourse with all the
usual facilities: it would probably cost £2,000.
